In this video we'll talk about virtual destructors in the previous example.
We got four warning messages when we compiled our simple account class hierarchy.
These warnings were the compiler telling us that deleting a polymorphic object that doesn't have a virtual
destructor could lead to unexpected behavior.
In fact if we have a derived class object that's destroyed by deleting its base class pointer and that
class does not have a virtual destructor then the behavior is undefined by the C++ standard.
That's not good.
Remember derived objects must always be destroyed in the correct order and starting at the correct destructor.
So how can we address these warnings.
Thankfully the solution is simple and intuitive.
If we have a class and that class has virtual functions then that class must always provide a virtual
destructor.
Once we provide a virtual destructor in the base class then all destructors in the derived classes are
also virtual.
We don't have to provide the virtual keyword again although it's best practice to do so.
Here's the code snippet for the account base class.
Since this class has a virtual function withdraw then we must declare the destructor to be virtual as
well.
That's it.
Simple solution to a potentially serious situation.
Let's head over to the ID and see what happens on my system when we don't provide virtual destructors.
And then we'll add them and see the difference.
Welcome back so I mean the IDM in the Section 16 workspace in the virtual destructors project.
So we've got the same account class we've had all along and what I've done here is I've added destructors.
Now these are not virtual destructors yet they're just plain old destructors.
CKC Here's a destructor for the account class and it's simply printing out a count destructor.
The checking account displays checking destructor Selby's destructor and trust destructor.
OK and that we've got our same example that we've been using.
We're creating four pointers to two a base class object.
We're creating an account a savings account a checking account a trust account dynamically on the heap
and then we're calling the withdraw method.
All that will work perfectly fine right now.
The problem comes in right here.
When we delete those pointers right we're free the storage for them.
When we build this project we're going to run into the same four warnings that we had before the warnings
are about the leading object of polymorphic class type account which has non-virtual destructor might
cause undefined behavior.
It sounds pretty ominous and it's a potentially serious warning actually.
All the compiler knows is that we've got pointers to account objects so it really doesn't know which
destructor to call.
And this is undefined in the C plus plus standard.
If we run this will get one behavior on this compiler and this is pretty standard.
You can see what's happening here when I'm calling the delete.
Right here I'm under four pointers.
We're getting a count destructor destructor so you can see that the base class destructor is being called.
Now that's a real problem because the one that's ok for P1 right P1 is an account but P2 right now points
to a savings account Petris a checking P4 as a trust.
So there could be a lot of memory leaks going on those destructors maybe or so are you know closing
files and writing buffers out and none of that stuff is being called.
So potentially we could have a serious problem here.
Thankfully the fix is really easy.
All we need to do is provide virtual destructors and really easy to do.
We can just use the virtual keyword right in front of the destructor and we only have to do it here
in the base class.
But as I mentioned it's good practice to do it everywhere.
So over my virtual destructors I may just finish up one more to go.
And here we go.
Now if we run this now we build and run.
You'll see we get no errors.
And now watch what happens.
This is more like it right here we're deleting the one which cause the account destructor has before.
Now when we delete P2 P2 is a savings so you can see that the savings destructor is being called followed
by the base class destructor which is exactly what we want.
So if we're freeing memory and those destructors if we're closing files writing buffer is taking care
of resources now everything's going to work as we want.
You can see P three here is doing the checking destructor followed by the account destructor and then
following the trust destructor and the account destructor for P4.
Remember we all get going we're only going one deep here in the inheritance hierarchy.
If you are going 5 6 10 deep then you've got a lot of destructors that weren't called.
That will be called now.
They'll take care of memory take care of resources and so forth.
The rule is really really simple.
If you've got a class and it's got a virtual function give it a virtual destructor as well.
Sometimes students hands about virtual constructors.
You can't have virtual constructors they're not allowed and they really don't make any sense at all.
OK so that's it about virtual destructor is in the next video what we'll do is we'll talk about the
override specifier that gets the compiler to help us out just in case we make some errors.